no I just I just finished writing my
final exam yesterday I still have one
essay to finish off but this is right
now it's kind of a period of transition
in my life so I may get back to the gym
I may actually get to work out a bit
more than a few weeks but no I've been
busy but right now you picked a good day
to talk to me dumb and there's a viewer
that has a question he wasn't sure okay
good he asks will veganism be more
appealing for the masses by Oakland
openly expressing it and by that I
believe he means you know just kind of
sharing the reasons personally why like
let's say I get on YouTube and I'm like
this is why I'm be in this why I'm so
passionate about or do you think cold
hard information medical information of
dietary information what do you what
angle do you think dude I guess the
question is does emotion really create
change inspire change in other people or
do you think cold hard information facts
about the truth of meat dairy industry
facts about health nutrition um is one
more important than the other so you
you've asked me a question which is an
incredibly rare example of something
where I can I can quote something my
father taught me my father did not teach
me a great deal of wisdom life but this
is one case where i can actually I'm
invoke something for my father my father
pointed out to me as a kid I spent a lot
of my time going to museums there's a
difference between learning facts and
shifts in attitude so the point of for
example visiting a museum about the
history of American Indians your native
p
people in America is not to load you as
a visitor you come to that museum it's
not to make you memorize a whole bunch
of historical dates when did this happen
1782 1824 is not the point that's
informational learning that's learning
facts facts are important it's not for
you to memorize exactly how many Native
Americans were killed by white people
and how many died of smallpox that's not
the point what you're trying to
accomplish in having a museum or a
visitor's center like that is to bring
people in who have the attitude that
there's nothing worth knowing about this
topic that Native Americans aren't
important don't matter both Americans
and tourists you know you're going to
get Pakistani tourists going to
Washington DC and they don't know
anything about any of Americans and they
go to this museum till what's what's
interesting about this and they'll have
a shift in attitude if it's a good
museum they'll have a shift in attitude
thinking oh this is something
interesting and important in the history
of the world and then they'll be open to
learning some factual information but it
depends on on the type of person you
know maybe that's all you get out of it
maybe you just think gee you know what I
thought Native Americans were of no
importance and you know now I have some
appreciation that they were an important
part of our history and that's it and
some percentage of people are going to
want to move past that into learning
facts of what have you and you know now
museums today they may not be the best
example but i think that's that's a
really clear case we have this division
between a change in attitude and and
factual learning I've been to museums
that were about you know periods of
history I never heard of before who were
the scynthians you know scynthians are
people out of Asian history and you know
this museum it shows me a whole bunch of
works of art and maps and tells me this
video oh okay gee you know what
decisions I never heard of them before
they were important to the history of
Europe okay and that's about it I'm not
I don't it's not my area of interest I'm
not going to go research and memorize
dates and facts or what have you but
that attitudinal change is Israel which
trying to accomplish I think so for
vegans there are two separate but linked
questions here
one question is how do you convert
people to veganism okay we can talk
about that but the other is just how do
vegans become respected as a minority
where your point is look I want you to
change your attitude you're a meat eater
and you may have complete contempt for
me or regard me as crazy or regard me as
an eccentric or have you I want you to
understand vegans are here to stay we're
here forever we're part of the society
whatever the same way the Chinese are
we're a minority within the society
unlike the Chinese we choose to live
this way and I I want you to have the
the shift in attitude where you
recognize this is something important
you know this is this is and that's me
maybe that's it maybe that's all I can
getta you maybe that's all I want to get
to view and I think a lot of people who
think about your own workplace think
about how different it is to have a boss
who has sneering contempt for the fact
that you're vegan every time it comes up
or you you know you can't do something
or you're doing something slightly
different for the rest of staff as
opposed to a boss who recognizes you
know in that way just this is something
important even though they don't agree
with it you know this is this is a
difference they can respect maybe not
the answer you were expecting I don't we
stay part image of what activism should
be whether it's holding signs in the
street like kind of going back to the 60
so I mean holding signs in the street
marching um there's a new guy on the
scene who's the main portion of this
content is him at first stores trying to
you know just troll people get people to
not buy fur I suppose you know if it's
real if it's meaningful to him it's
meaningful to him um I remember vegan
gains about two or three weeks ago
uploaded a video where he was dressed as
a slaughtered pig in a shopping cart and
went through whole food store um is
there a difference between activism and
just trolling and trolling for
self-righteous regions reasons whether
it's you know just to gain notoriety on
youtube or just to you know be that
clown and um it is that a form of
activism in as though at all I mean
you've stated in videos before the real
activism it's more like getting three
four or five guys together on figuring
out strategic
plans or or trying to write some kind of
petition that you could take to your
town hall to actually make some kind of
difference do these forms of activism
trolling in supermarkets which I'm
guilty of doing myself and I actually
still have a couple of those videos up
so I'm not without guilt on this one
trolling people in supermarkets or um
you know just trolling people had
clothing stores that sell leather for it
does that really make a difference I'm
or is that more of Aegeus kind of a
self-righteous pursuit and besides
lifestyle activism on YouTube um you
know what do you think we as the regular
people as individuals that maybe our
YouTube celebrities what the hell should
we be focused on yeah look you want to
make it real you know that's really what
we want to focus on well you know my
propensity to keep it real a phrase I
use too much but I'll give you real um
you know we all struggle with this stuff
we all figured on our own back when I
was 15 or 16 I don't remember which I
let's say I was I was 15 you know I
briefly learned video editing for the
pre-digital in a high school class
wouldn't be my first year in high school
with the old VHS cassettes how do how to
edit video and you know I think we were
supposed to come up with a short film
project and I had this idea so I'm
Jewish my mother is Jewish and you know
the idea was really simple for short
film this is the kind of thing people
now do on YouTube YouTube didn't exist
back then etc but I said okay I'm going
to print out and photocopy a really
simple poster and the main part of the
poster was just in big letters poverty
is real and there was a wealthy
neighborhood a walking distance from me
everything in downtown Tehran i was
walking desing there just mentioned that
could walk I could walk everywhere I
could walk to poor neighborhoods I could
walk to rich neighborhoods where I grew
up in Toronto there was a Portuguese
neighborhood over here and then there
was a separate Brazilian Portuguese
neighborhood down in the other direction
and they hated each other oh but I way
to say it was in the middle of a very
diverse area of the city but I said okay
I'm going to go to this rich
neighborhood and I'm going to put this
on a you know poster it on the
electric electrical poles you know like
light poles in the street and then you
know after some time take a cameron and
interview people you know as an art
project just ask people in that
neighborhood you know what is this
really vague statement poverty is real
in the midst of a really wealthy
neighborhood where you can't you know
you can't see that and get people's
reaction inside problem and then edit it
together into a short film and I thought
at whatever at 15 I thought this was the
greatest idea I just like to me at my 15
year old brain I thought this is
fantastic and also it's telling like I
didn't think of anyone seeing it aside
from my friends like I had no delete
like I didn't think it was gonna play in
an in a cinema you know i mean like i
didn't i thought i'd show like 20
friends of mine or something the video
it was died there was no YouTube
whatever but I thought this is a great
project and remember my mother's
reaction which remember till I die I'm
not only did you think this was a
terrible idea and try to stop me from
doing it but she accused me of
anti-semitism she's Jewish it up Jewish
she thought this was anti-semitic which
any with Jesus Christ there's a real
there's debt that should have taught me
to expect the kind of [ __ ] reaction
you get from people on the Internet my
own mother there anyway i didn't i
didn't actually do it I didn't do that
project but I remember that as like when
you're asking yourself you know what is
activism um you know what is effective
activism I think most of us growing up
go through that kind of thing searching
why you look I shouldn't even say
growing up I think some people go
through at age 35 race 45 you know some
people some people already have a part
time job when there are 15 and they're
not really thinking about any of that
stuff and only when they get older
something happens whether it's a war or
a strike something happens that gets
them thinking about politics and they
first start searching for answers the
really so I realize this is not
answering your question but but this is
all under the heading of keeping it real
but my point is i wasn't born knowing
the answers to these questions i I also
you know looked around for any kind of
answer I think what
what's incompatible with the internet is
that the real answer this question is
going to be very local for you every you
don't live in new york city you live in
syracuse or something right you live in
a small but I mean it's may sound stupid
but the answer in Syracuse is going to
be totally different from the answer in
Manhattan you know it's so different uh
and you know that may sound like
[ __ ] to people but you know the
answer is going to be different if you
meet five people you can rely on and
work with or if you don't you know and
one of the guys who emailed me asking
for advice on this and i made like a 30
minute video answering his question it's
one of my Q&A videos where I just answer
one question it takes 30 minutes his
wife actually got in touch with me and
she thanked me she said you know I know
my husband didn't write back to you but
your video really inspired him and in
the past we were doing this kind of
activism that he wasn't happy with and
now we're trying to organize this so I
know there are some people who responded
to what I had to say by really changing
the kind of activism they do directly
but part of part of the answer is I
can't give you and on the internet there
is no answer that is true for Germany
Spain California that that you really
need to be sensitive to and strategic
about what are the unique local factors
that that provide opportunities for you
to make a difference ok so other than
like other than social media other than
YouTube ok let's just talk about
activist yeah a little bit ok yeah I
want to jump in right there for one
reason [ __ ] you fairly got a question no
but look I mean uh one of the reasons
both in fitness and activism why it's
really important to talk to normal
people of a normal full time job is that
you know most of us are sellouts legkick
you know I live in Victoria BC know but
like let's let's get really real about
it if you're not one of these [ __ ]
like durian riders on permanent vacation
if you have any jobs or any
responsibilities in life even a feeling
of responsibility like you're not really
responsible for your mom but you feel
responsible it changes your life a bit
you know like
you know I just saying you're not going
to live a totally reckless life for that
reason what you know some people they're
taking care of their grandparents
whatever I mean you know you just have
you have a sense responsibility to the
city of living in whatever it is um I
live in Victoria I'm like a five minute
trip from Seattle if I got invited to a
vegan and animal rights conference in
Seattle would I go probably not why
because I have a daughter I have a
three-year-old kid who lives in France
and Germany it's not really related but
it is like the whole question of what
you do with your time and what risks are
willing to take and you know what
motivates you that completely changes
with having a job having a kid real life
stuff it's like you know I don't want to
be a diet guru either i don't i don't
want to have a six-pack I don't want a
bench press third but I just don't care
it's not my it's not my obligation
lifestyle mandersohn life but also like
you think about you know any job i'm
gonna take on how that totally changes
my priorities I'm moving to China I'm
gonna have a job in China right you know
I just say like on that real level once
you step back from the kind of internet
demi-monde real people do real things
and most of us are sellouts you know
most of us are neither going to live the
life of the you know the so-called
lifestyle activists on on YouTube but
we're also not going to live this this
you know image of the rebel with the
black mask holding a puppy you know the
anarchists anti-establishment rifle inch
most of us are not going to devote a lot
of time to doing these ridiculous
protests with DXE direct action
everywhere like walking into a
restaurant and screaming at random
strangers you know you can do it a
couple times if it gives you a thrill
I've talked to several people I won't
say who I've talked to several people
about this and when I say you know when
you've done the same protest like five
or six times it's not the same anymore
and they interrupt me and say oh my god
after a hundred times i'm so sick of
that
oh I I don't really have that like
bitterness or death of experience but
there are people who have been to
exactly the same fer protest on the
street you know 110 they've reached
their limit you know so just say like in
a sense real life make sellouts out of
all of us that's why don't I don't
uncritically endorse that kind of stuff
I engage in some kind of nuanced
discussion of it but you know for me the
conversation has to start with
recognizing who you are in your life and
your own propensity to sell out or
however you want to put it right I feel
like for me personally um social media
for a while has been you know a pursuit
of mine and it is important and it's
still very very important whether it's
YouTube live streaming I'm very active
on Twitter um and I do think it's it's a
tool to spread the message about a
certain lifestyle right now is it gonna
really make any huge changes in society
I've kind of given up that um that dream
or thats a delusion maybe um but I would
like to say that you know inspired by
you uh and some of your videos from six
months ago eight months ago I did go
back to school you know um I took school
seriously this time I've never received
the grades that I'm getting now I did
pursue an internship which I got um you
know it's only a few hours here and
there throughout the week but you know
I'm on live radio and i'm editing radio
shows i'm trying to move into the TV
Department um I feel like for myself
everything that I'm doing offline I am
setting myself up for being potentially
um the most influential kind of person
that I that I can be you know like
you've said in a video I could never run
for town mayor that's never going to
happen I don't want the ambitions and I
don't have a credibility or the
background but I do believe that I'm
setting myself up personally in the
future um for reaching my full potential
as you know an influential person and an
influential vegan a per
that happens to be vegan so um do you
think maybe we don't see or hear about a
lot of that but would you say that the
majority of vegans are responsible
citizens and do really contribute
something to society or do you think a
lot of us maybe even the majority of us
are fame-hungry like course yeah I know
to me it raises a totally different
interesting question I mean look what
what percentage of vegans are our
digital vegans I think we both know it's
a minority but it's the most visible
minority it was the people you can see
in here interact with like I say all the
time I feel I don't have a sense of what
normal vegans are like because I only
know what vegans on YouTube are like and
they're a very peculiar minority on the
other hand but back when I was on tumblr
I was like these people can't be normal
vegans because the type of vegans who
are doing you know tumblr social justice
warrior activism is like you people
can't be the majority either but if you
go to an animal rights conference and
meet those weirdos they're not the
majority either they're really I mean
they may be great people some of them
may be terrible people but the kind of
people who are these embittered old um
activists who spent 30 years protesting
against a particular vivisection lab and
maybe you have been to jail over it and
so on they're not normal they're not the
mass market either but I mean for me the
question comes to my mind in and
listening what you were just saying is
actually of your connection the
particular place you're living you know
I think your view of veganism both
digital and real world would be
different if you knew for a fact or if
you were committed to living in Syracuse
for the next 10 years you know if you
were going to be routed to that spot for
whatever reason on the other hand if
you're planning to move to you know Los
Angeles or New York or something new
york city you know that changes your
outlook in many ways for me like during
my first year here in victoria it wasn't
really clear it was like well i could
stay here long term this could be my
base of operation
and you know I have meshed you I
consider becoming a cop here it's one of
the only steady jobs you can get with a
diploma in political science so yeah I
beat up the local drug addicts for a
living that kind of thing and I relay to
think about that but I mean ultimately
one of my reasons for not being it for
not wanting to be a copier is that I
don't have a meaningful connection to
the place to this city this is not my
city and I wouldn't you know I wouldn't
be motivate I wouldn't do a good job at
that although I I think I would be a
better cop than beneath the people i
meet you know you know anyway I i have i
have a set of attitudes that might make
me okay at that job but anyway yeah
where I was going with this is like you
know and I've said this on a video in
the past imagine if you know members of
local police department fire department
you know yeah ambulance squad imagine
these people were being and imagine if
our local politicians were vegan imagine
if our local school teachers were vegan
and you know there is so um well right
but my point was once once you're
committed to a place I mean the idea of
being committed to a place is kind of
out of style in the 21st century and
there's all this [ __ ] on YouTube of
being a digital nomad you know don't
live anywhere in particular just buy a
new airplane ticket every every month
when your visa elapses well that's also
giving up a sense of social
responsibility connected to a place and
you know like is it meaningful or is it
meaningless to be a cop that changes a
lot with how you feel about your city or
your town if you're in a small town and
you love that small town you care about
the people in that small talent being a
cop there it can be tremendously
meaningful rewarding if you're not from
that town you don't give a [ __ ] about
these people you're just trying to get a
paycheck you might be doing the same job
as a cop and have totally different ads
utility of a sense of engagement I mean
so for me that question of you know
what's the meaningful role of vegans in
the community I think that really
changes with with the community and with
your sense of engagement to it like I
mentioned Hong Kong a lot of these you
know to me they're just bullshitters
these bullshitters both digital nomadism
of living this nomadic life and make
your money
internet there in and out of Hong Kong I
used to live in Hong Kong I lived in
Hong Kong for more than a year I think I
forget to think is it felt like a long
time I think was born here um there are
foreigners in Hong Kong like there were
like white people in Hong Kong and there
were there people from India so there
are brown people in Hong Kong who are
deeply committed to local politics who
literally who go to City Hall and who
are really involved with the democratic
process and who are really involved in
like controversies about corruption you
know corruption in the government and
who are so committed who appear on the
local TV news you know just shown within
the city you know in English and you
know involved in human rights trials and
all kinds of stuff so I mean and there
are foreigners they're not born in Hong
Kong they're not raised there but
somehow they got a job there they stayed
for a couple years and they got
committed engage and I can remember
looking at those people because I was
involved with you know Civic politics in
Toronto I remember when I was in Hong
Kong looking at those people and
thinking that ain't me yeah that ain't
me throw this is not my city this is not
my fight these politics are not my
politics like I'm just a tourist here
even though whatever I lived there for
you like I'm on this job I'm getting
this paycheck and I'm getting out and
like like ecological politics in Hong
Kong are insane it's one of the most
polluted places in the world there's all
this struggle but like so I just say
like as part of that is invisible part
of that is totally subjective and
personal and as a matter of your your
decision your character your commitment
does it make a difference to have vegans
in those positions absolutely I believe
it does and maybe that's I mean maybe
the short short answer that is that's
the sense in which I'm still a kind of
naive optimist I won't i won't say who
but one of my professors he actually
asked me not to say this so I don't know
why but one of my professors I have a
hundred professor so you'll never know
which one obviously he's older than me I
never preached veganism to him I like
you know he came up and we talked about
a little bit in passing but he really
changed his life in some in some deep
ways because of my influence on him and
that came to surprise the same way my
influence on you came to surprise to me
but just from him kind of hanging around
me and talking to me for a couple of
times
I don't think he became a hundred
percent vegan but he changed his
lifestyle and a whole bunch of ways
including that he completely quit
drinking alcohol and that kind of thing
because of me now you know so if you ask
question what influence can you have on
people as a university students that's
all I am I don't have any you know it's
weird you know I I don't know you know
and you know in terms of him and what's
going on in his life I mean
realistically is it really me that was
the cause or did he have a whole bunch
of other things going on in his life
that made him re-evaluate what he was
doing life and I you know I happen to be
there you know at that time um I think
in most cases that's you know that's
what's going on you happen to meet
someone at a time when whatever they
hate their job you know whatever they've
got you know their their grandmother
just died you know there's a whole bunch
of unrelated things in their life that
has them questioning what's the meaning
of life what what do they want to do I
actually to make I haven't yet mentioned
Cambodia in this video i have to mention
cambodia in every single video but you
know there was a guy in cambodia who
ended up becoming famous for torturing
and murdering people that huge huge
number of people and when he was asked
in an interview he was under oath like
he was in a courtroom type situation he
was asked why did you why did you join
the Communist Party in the first place
like why did you switch sides from in
the comments but you know he eventually
was torturing people what why did you
join the first place and he said you
know I was trying to get a girlfriend
and there was this girl i really liked
and she rejected me you know she she
turned me down and then i was i was on
my way home and I went to to unlock my
bicycle his bicycle it's locked up and
somebody had stolen my bicycle he
thought that's it [ __ ] it he's gonna go
join these revolutionaries in the jungle
he's gonna get a machine gun and and so
that's the realest answer on earth man
that is keeping it real that is the one
hundred percent honest answer you know
he was unlucky in love this girl didn't
want to date him and then somebody stole
his bicycle he's like [ __ ] it I'm
getting a gun
so nobody mean it's like that with
veganism also so like I in terms of you
know converting people you can't you
can't put too much cause and effect
position when I found you know when I
great ocean me TV him so yeah I think
that's a very real answer on before I
lose the thought I wanted to go back
just to the local level thing okay bread
phone on you know vegan vegan activism
on a local level as being very
meaningful maybe more meaningful than
doing social media um so my brother and
I yesterday we went to a vegan
restaurant only vegan restaurant in
Syracuse called strong hearts um you
know I was going there hoping to kind of
hoping for a different experience than I
had no it's not that the food was bad
and it's not that it was a dirty
restaurant or anything but a walk in
there and actually a very famous um
vegan youtuber from Syracuse his name is
the vegan zombie is like over a hundred
thousand subscribers I actually just
recently found out about mom that's how
big I guess the world is on YouTube but
um but yeah there's a guy walking around
town with a hundred thousand subscribers
who frequents this restaurant so I was
like you know let's go check it out
Andrew and um I go in there and it's the
typical kind of image of what I used to
think vegans Wertz the hipsters the
gauges the beards it's girls with you
know pasty white girls that are not
phone at all with [ __ ] blue and green
tattoos all up and down their arms
people that I would never um you know
and just I know I'm kind of making a
judgemental statement by by by there
yeah people I genuinely don't think that
I have much in common with whatsoever
and that I um I don't plan on going back
to that restaurant I can eat a whole for
a lot cheaper and the food wasn't
outstanding so yeah I become a little
frustrated because it's like the only
small little community that I can
actually go to right besides
yeah but look you may not have even you
may not have even thought of it but the
other invisible barrier there is drug
use right like well I don't even want no
no but no but for me that's a huge one I
drink zero alcohol i use zero drugs i'm
not an ex-addict that's that's how I
live my life but in different cultures
that's a cute we're very often
socialization totally depends on at
least alcohol and marijuana may be other
drugs the people you're describing one
reason for you let me know I mean anyone
but for you personally to avoid that
kind of company is would be I would
think that you'd be concerned about them
using you know alcohol and marijuana
quite possibly other drugs and if
they're expecting you if you're going to
socialize them with them or join their
social circle whatever to be to be using
you know alcohol nor want with them or
at least they're gonna use it in front
of you so that's also emits a huge
barrier for all age groups I mean if
you're trying to meet I mean if I look
at these people they don't live the same
kind of lifestyle I do i write pretty
much different styles of music they're
probably in two different movies they
don't work out I mean there's just it's
hard to find my version of veganism
which is pretty much gym rat uh going to
school you know hanging out on YouTube
kind of veganism here in town um and
what I'd like to find vegans that are
maybe a more like professionals
eventually and you know have that that
group of people that group of guys that
I can kind of count on and maybe
collaborate with shore but when I have
an experience like that um I mean how do
you yeah how does one deal with that
kind of frustration I mean is it worry
is it worth my while to try to forget
about that and and and look past the the
initial impressions I get from these
kind of people and see if I can build
real relationships start hanging out in
places like that maybe go out to eat
there once a week try to get to know the
employees I mean look at me at all I I
think when you do it you'll find out
what the barriers are I mean look the
good news is if you do it maybe you'll
at least make one friend maybe you'll
make two friends well you know I agree
the odds of you making 10 or 20 friends
is not very good but if you
if you try that's when you'll learn what
the real barriers are now I think drug
use actually is going to be one of the
barriers you encounter where you meet
someone and you kind of tie them you can
kind of get along to some extent but
then you realize what a big role drugs
and alcohol have in their lives and you
think well okay I got to keep my
distance and for me personally as i say
i'm not an ex-addict but that's still
the reality for me and when I'm in a
place like England it's impossible the
British are so psychologically dependent
on alcohol where they can't talk to you
at all without drinking alcohol and some
so anyway different in different
scenarios that's one but another is
going to be politics you know I'm
actually I'm very open-minded about and
relaxed about discussing politics I can
sit down and chat with someone who
disagrees to me of a polis I don't need
to have friends who you know or
denticles me in politics but the kind of
stereotypical left-wing hippie is not
going to be someone who gets along with
me someone who believes in crazy
conspiracy theories about September 11th
it's not going to be someone gets along
with me someone who does not believe in
using soap is not going to get along
with me I mean these are linked the kind
of conspiracy soap is a conspiracy
invented by the man trying to keep you
down no [ __ ] you soap is a brilliant
[ __ ] human invention I mean come on
hey sorry I'm Pro I'm politically I'm
Pro soap you know uh no I don't remember
that but somebody did ya know yeah yeah
I know Jim people do know wash and no no
shampoo and other other fat ideas here
right great I mean this is real deep but
it's real yeah those are the barriers
people the kind of vegans that exist in
my town um are there professional vegans
out there I'm sure but how do I find
them you know what I'm saying are there
people that I can get along with um that
either in recovery or straight edge you
don't mean how does it it's I guess more
of just a question to ponder a
rhetorical question but that's that
seems to be the barrier right now is
locally getting involved you know even
just socially with other vegans is
finding those you know because vegans
are very
different people you know we are kind of
a minority but there's so many different
versions of lifestyle and and
personalities um really I feel very
isolated feel alone well I mean well I I
I don't feel alone I am alone like you
know that's the reality of my life like
it's just a fact does your machine you
know being lonely and being alone i
would say what you and I have in common
it i think it's an advantage we both
have very honest YouTube channels
talking about our lives and to me that's
an advantage because when people reject
me look when people don't want to talk
to me because my youtube channel that's
great because it saves me time on the
other hand when people do want to get to
know me because they have a sense of who
I am or what I'm about from a channel
that's also very positive so you know
it's it's a two-way filter whatever you
want to say it it can put you in touch
with people who who really do want to
know you and it can keep away people who
don't want to know you I had people back
when I first start a major chennai
people saying to me oh why would you
include this stuff about your divorce
and your daughter you know this is going
to turn people off and so no I want
people to be turned off like it's good
like having a self month about my
divorce it discourages women from
hitting on me unless they really want to
hit on me you know it's like though the
women who are really interested knowing
this stuff about me are getting touched
me but yeah for me that would be a kind
of a major deception if I just pretended
that I was like single and fancy free
that I didn't have a divorce and a kid
in Europe to me that would be a pretty
significant way of misrepresenting my
life and who I am um but I mean you know
that's again I guess there's there's
still an aspect to me that's optimistic
that by doing exactly what you and I do
on YouTube you will make connections
with at least a few people of who have
something meaningful con with you and I
think you and I are a really unlikely
example of that like you and I now our
friends I didn't see that coming you
know yeah yeah yeah so I mean you know
like even if whatever even this is one
example there are some positive example
to come out of it and look I mean you
know again it's cool to what the H get
happened so on I'm 37 how often would I
meet someone who's 55 or 25 or what have
you so there there there are some
advantages but look
long story short the struggle is real I
completely relate to what you're saying
when I my first year here I tried to
meet in person all the local vegans in
this small city in Victoria and so what
kind of activism they were involved with
and I don't do that anymore yep you know
ultimately I felt it was a long story
short it was wasted my time but if any
of those people could have cooperated
with me or there could have been a
positive connection what have you at a
minimum they could be sitting at this
desk with me in a video I could have a
couple people come over and film a
conversation you know an absolute
minimum if there was anyone York walk
cooperate with they would have shown up
on my youtube channel but sure beyond
that sky's the limit yeah let's talk
about reckless self-confidence just real
quick um you know I myself and
definitely guilty of that probably still
guilty of that I would even say you know
you sharing something as personal as a
divorce and you know the struggles of
custody with your child um there's a
girl in here right now she watches me on
youtube and she said that she had just
uploaded a video about mental illness
perience with mental illness um and you
have mentioned before and even
criticized the big youtubers for
promoting you know there are not
promoting but discussing their to their
drug history their criminal history
vegan gains even made a video maybe a
couple months ago about tripping on
mushrooms openly promoting drug use and
and describing the benefits of a
hallucinogenic mushroom experience so is
should we filter ourselves if we're
going to get on camera and hope to
influence people I mean is there should
there be limits to what we say what we
don't say and what we share what we
shouldn't share mean should there be
that kind of online personality where
you know maybe the viewers don't
especially if you have a huge following
where the viewers don't have to know
everything and the mainstream media
doesn't have to know everything you know
or should we just put it all out there
well look I think that the the first
point of course is going to be different
strokes for different folks Jason and
hania in if I mean they they have vlogs
but really
they don't tell you anything about their
lives not a criticism but really that's
an example of their example to people
who are highly successful but it's
pretty it's pretty impersonal you get to
see what eight for breakfast but you
don't you don't hear any of this other
stuff um and you know I don't know you
know I don't know them all that
personally but nevertheless I've seen
horrifying personal attacks on hannya
there's this you know really creepy guy
in Taiwan and she stayed at his place
like a couple of years ago and he now
has videos denouncing her and like
really creepy stuff insinuating you know
things about her sex life and stuff very
hurtful you know really you know for any
normal person this stuff is very hurtful
so I mean the the risk you open yourself
to by having this kind of personal
material nature it is exactly that I
said in a recent video like any of us if
just one of our ex girlfriends came on
youtube without lying and just had a
rant saying unflattering things in a
flattering way like if one of your
ex-girlfriends just talked about a bad
night you had where you lost your temper
without lying I mean if they lie they
can make it into anything but just
really you know defamed you with things
that happen to be true or they're told
that a context or whatever you know I
think that's that's ultimately the risk
we take and and the threat you got to
live with I don't know for the people
who wear a mask literally or
figuratively like like vegan revolution
I don't know I know if that's what
they're afraid of or what I'm in his
case I don't think it's it's for the
sake of his career but look I I'm not
against people talking about their their
drug experiences I'm anti-drug I I
disagree with what they're saying but I
don't fault them for saying it I really
am about keeping it real and I think
it's good for them to talk openly about
their drugs merits you talk about some
of your drug experiences and obviously
you're not doing that to encourage
people to to start using heroin yeah hey
heroine is vegan okay I mean
I made a video a few months ago like
stay on Iran almost a year ago now about
my relapse and you know just confessed
my sins i guess and people were actually
um they were relieved that when i said
relapse i didn't heat on my diet that i
had never expected here i went into my
arms and you know they were like you're
good in my blue pro at least at least
you weren't eating pork right yeah right
yeah yeah though because I mean this
question of what do you call it reckless
reckless self-confidence you know point
one is not everyone is cut out for it
some people are going to suffer some
people are not as strong mentally or
emotionally they're not going to cope
with it and some people I wonder how
they do cope with it I am cut out for it
I don't really give it down but the
second thing is I mean I have to think
about this I'm unlike other youtubers I
think about it both in a really short
term way and in a really long term way
uh in the long term it's I think about
my daughter seeing this stuff one day
yeah and I am the kind of guy like I've
had people writing to me saying how the
hell could you want your daughter to
ever see this about you I want my
daughter to know the full range of what
my life is like including whatever like
you know politics violence you know
humanitarian work failures talking about
failures in life I don't want to present
myself as some great success story you
know I've had to deal with real failure
and recover from failure and come up
with new directions in my life I would
want all that to be there for my
daughter to see one day uh but on the
other hand I've also got to think very
short term what why did I come in the
Asia talking about veganism the first
place I had just moved to France I
didn't know anyone in France I was vegan
I wanted to meet the other vegans in
France who's trying to make those
connections um why did I start this
youtube channel i just moved to victoria
bc i moved back i've been living in
taiwan i didn't know a single person
here of any description and you know in
the short term hoping to meet other
vegans hoping to meet other people
interested in Chinese politics because i
was doing politics of China trying to
make those connections
so I mean you know and like keeping all
the way real at any given point in that
story I really did not know if I was
going to be alive a year or two down the
road I've got a lot of extreme risk
factors in my life including the fact
that I joined up to sign the army which
I'm also public about on my youtube
channel like in terms of like really
weird challenge which again I'm glad my
daughter would know about that one day
so look this is really real like in
terms of changes I was trying to make in
my life like you know I was actually I
didn't just think about it I actually
signed up to join the military so you
know and I've all this all this crazy
stuff I mean in some ways my life is
staying absolutely the same you know the
books in the background changes the kind
of stability but in some ways there were
like these really crazy changing all the
time so like short term don't know
what's going to happen next don't know
if I'm still gonna be here you're 24 now
long-term leaving slammed for my
daughter those for me are powerful
incentives to be recklessly
self-confident to really disclose what's
going on in my life um for other people
it's the wrong thing to do I know one
vegan youtuber here in Victoria he only
briefly had more of like a vegan comedy
channel he was vegan but he kind of
played a fictional character he wore a
wig and he did put on a funny voice and
he was getting abusive phone calls at
work and he closed down the channel and
you know whatever deleted his videos for
this thing you know so for some people
that's it I'm you know there's there's a
really simple threshold which is if if
I'm that that wasn't even about being
recklessly honest if this brings
anything negative into your life you're
going to show it down well and whatever
in the immediate I vegan girl and so on
am you know a lot of people hit their
limit with it and close it down so yeah
that's that's the most honest answer I
can give you it's not it's fine man we
actually we could talk about anything
you want to talk about it no if you want
to talk about applying for jobs at
starbucks and grocery stores or what but
if you know we can talk about whatever
it's you know
gwendoline as well yeah yeah but look I
would I would encourage you that
whatever you do do do come on YouTube
and talk about it because for one thing
it's meaningful to your viewers it's
meaningful to you is we need meaningful
to your friends right now but it's also
going to be meaningful when you look
back on it five years from now I don't
know I only have a couple of months
before i go to China so I don't think
starbucks would hire me but if I did
work at Starbucks you know well I would
really want to come on and talk about
that for that reason and again it
connects all these things my life
clinics to my education it connects to
my long-term aspirations obviously i
work starbucks the rest of my life and
for you to write let mean you're looking
at taking these jobs but for you you
exactly do not want it to be a dead end
job and you do not you're not doing it
just to save up enough money to go to
Thailand or any this other horseshit you
are someone with long-term ambitions in
your life so I mean that I think that
stuff is worth talking about and again I
even compliment freely about that when
freely was talking about it was like to
be a waitress I think that's great i
think that's positive content know that
you brought up my boy durianrider um
yeah so he's made some wild accusations
lately but you do you mind if i share
with your sure but it's it's on the
internet it's public
guess what that's his tumblr page or
something yeah that's his blog yeah on
tumblr Graham so he well he did make a
video indirectly you know saying that
you were probably sneaking me dairy
products and that you weren't really
vegan but now he's telling people on a
one-on-one basis that you're uh you're
on you know taking testosterone so like
well I mean what do you feel about no
steroids he didn't accuse me think you
saw John steroid it's um you know how do
you think that how do you think you know
maybe on a one-on-one basis but also
with the masses at least on you know his
channel how do you think some of these
wild statements and accusations I mean
do you think people actually take during
Ryder seriously when he says stuff like
and I'm not trying to throw shade at
durianrider but its statements like
these that at least for me personally
discredits um everything else that he
said and I do you think other people
feel the same and what do you how do you
feel personally about him you know
making those kind of accusations that
you're using steroids or that you know
sneaking meat dairy products into your
diet we talked about that um look I mean
thing one is so you're asking does
anyone believe it does anyone take it
seriously doesn't mislead anyone the
answer is yes and sadly a lot of those
people are kind of victims of this cult
and it's easy to ignore those people
maybe because they're stupid maybe
because they're eccentric it's like who
becomes a victim of a real cult anyway
I'm talking about a Buddhist or a Hindu
cult when you look at you know the type
of person who signs up to join a
religious cult it's very easy to be
dismissive and contemptuous and say oh
well this guy's a loser you know he
would have ruined his life anyway but
that's really not fair I mean you have
to look with some sympathy and
detachment and who these people are who
do take it seriously and do believe it
my first video really attacking the diet
like attacking freely under my terms
with a eat that was a spontaneous
reaction to a young woman who had gained
a lot of weight she'd gone from being
thin to being
pudgy on the rato for diet what no no
different girl actually so i'll mention
more this is actually a british girl but
no there's a british young woman but
yeah she to me she's pretty much a girl
out of our age she looks like a teenager
I think she was stole university student
and you know so she's a British female
she can't go out jogging or cycling I
mean you know she's not terribly
athletic and the British climate is what
it is and she wanted to be vegan but she
actually went back to eating meat at
least briefly because she was so
distraught at the results she was
getting falling freely endure mother's
advice so I got in touch with her I knew
personally some of the youtubers she
respected like she didn't know me so
like for example she was a fan of Ali
Tabrizi the friendly activist and I got
in touch with him and said look can you
talk to her because she you know she's a
fan of your channel and you know can you
give her some encouragement reassurance
what have you but you know she was
cracking up in her life is falling apart
gaining a ton of weight as a young
person for a lot of people it is it is a
big deal i mean you know it's not it has
some real emotional impact in their
lives and whatever maybe during ryan
freely act like it's no big deal well
they only gain weight for three years
it's only short-term it's only from age
21 to 24 that you were overweight then
the diester you'll [ __ ] you come on you
know right oh yeah and that's that's
completely different from you know some
of the results people yet right right
right no uh you know but i mean the the
my point was that i recorded that video
as a spontaneous reaction to her
experience you're asking what kind of
person takes this seriously she's an
example of someone who followed it like
a like a religion like you know she chi
and i asked her but that she and i
eventually chatted a little bit it was
like well how did you come to trust
these people in the first place and i
asked that in the video and i like why
would you of all the people to trust
with this kind of advice like if you
trusted your high school principal i'd
say well what the hell does your high
school principal know about diet and
weight loss maybe he does maybe he's a
great guy but like you know is it just
because he's the high school principal
is it your gym coach a lot of people
like you know they have a coach who
teaches them how to play football and
they believe everything he says about
diet he might not know what he's talking
about you know why why do
you put your trust in in these people
this way well you know even just from
her own youtube channel because she
talks about her life she is someone with
psychological problems she is someone
who you know I you could see emotionally
and mentally she's a bit scattered she's
the kind of person becomes a victim of
the sort of thing so you know yeah cult
leaders prey on the weak and that you
like that's not a reason to have a kind
of derisively a tude towards the week
you should take it just as seriously or
take it even more seriously but yeah and
asking the question does anyone really
believe this stuff does anyone take it
seriously the answer is yes and you know
if you if you look with open eyes and an
open heart who those people are there
are certain patterns and you know among
them there are these people are just
looking for justification to live on a
live on permanent vacation to check out
to have no sense of social
responsibility no sense of more
responsibility no sense of ambition if I
mean a lot a lot of people got money in
this world if you're rich if you inherit
money I hope you do something positive
with it I hope you don't just buy an
airplane ticket to Thailand and check
out you know there's so much you can do
with your life if you have money so
luxury I never had when I was doing
humanitarian work in Asia I was flat
broke I was I had to worry about where
my next paycheck was coming from and I
was I was helping the poor I was hoping
for himself you know I just say but I
mean like I actually don't I'm not a
conventional left winger I don't hate
rich people for just being rich if
you're if you're born with money it's an
opportunity to do wonderful things but
for sure you look at the influence
people like during right or have and and
you know yeah it's pretty negative it's
negative on the people who either are
weak or susceptible because they want to
believe it they want an excuse to live
that lifestyle and it's also you know a
bad influence on people who have
psychological problems and you know who
are victims of it the same way they'd be
victims of a cult group is like I like
it that's just from personal experience
um I can kind of relate to pain I do
feel like a lot some people are more
acceptable to you know the effects that
you know maybe cult-like quote-unquote
leaders have on on you know on the
individual
logically I myself found you know
veganism in general on youtube in a you
know I i was i was in a halfway house at
the time this was a couple years ago now
but uh you know I was kind of in a in a
vulnerable place especially socially you
know what I was looking for something at
that time to to be motivated about to be
inspired by so I do feel like me
personally I did at first I really
gravitated towards figures like during
rider and freelee the banana girl and
others you know but it did give me that
kind of sense of um there was almost an
air at a spiritual heir to especially
some of their earlier content you know
because like you've said in other videos
that they're asking you not only ethical
questions but um not not only at they're
not they're asking an ethical requests
but it's almost has a spiritual nature
to it you know saving the animals saving
the planet and not only that but saving
yourself um and just some of the
language they've used so I also want to
say though some of the negative effects
um spilled over into the way that I
presented myself on but okay and I know
this might sound kind of cheesy or
whatever but it was only last summer you
know about this time last year and I
just got kind of caught up with
everything that was going on you know
vegan games just came out um freely and
durian personally we're proving of my
content you know whether it was through
Instagram DMS or commenting on my I
remember I uploaded a video I actually
deleted it because it made me look like
an ass but the the title the video was
um why my dick is huge thanks to
veganism and you know that was one of
that was one of the the the videos that
freely really enjoyed she shared it on
her Twitter you know and um no I again I
appreciate um the the I guess assistance
that some of these guys have have given
me in growing my channel early on but I
would say the way I presented myself and
just the content that I was producing
was negatively influenced by these um
you know huge you know micro celebrities
online that happen to be vegan so you
personally I definitely relate to that
I'm something else I wanted to kind of
get into as well moving off of during
rider but going to freely um we were
talking about you know the kind of
influence that these people have freely
got on a television unused a news tell
bread that video yeah i did and i played
a short clip from it in one of my recent
videos just an audio clip yeah all right
um not in the actual video but in the
video that she made about her interview
um she actually and she's made this
statement for and so is during writer
that education doesn't mean [ __ ] having
a degree in the interview when they
asked her about it it was the only time
she kind of looked off away from the
camera and it was cringe-worthy in my
opinion yeah the first time I saw it I
felt that too or it's you know could
feel the tension you know interesting
moment yeah and so we're in talking
about negatively influencing people I
mean you know I could I could name
probably five or six people off the top
of my head that have dropped out of
university probably under the guidance
of tree right well what do you think
about that like these huge vegan
youtubers um you know promoting the idea
that it's okay to uh drop out of school
and pursue social media stardom and you
know uh ride a bike and eat fruit all
day I mean what what do you think about
that and do you think do you think those
kind of sentiments are going to hurt um
at least the people that are on YouTube
the vegans that are on YouTube do you
think it's gonna hurt our position or
our cause you know five years down the
line ten years online when you have
hundreds of thousands of vegan YouTube
channels that all have a thousand
subscribers and nobody has any diplomas
or any kind of education or no career
paths or anything like that well look um
there are three very powerful incentives
here that are different from most cults
money sex and fame like if you get
involved with Buddhism not much money
not much sex stuff like no Fame like you
know most religious groups girl groups
they can't offer you much of those three
things and the powerful
incentive that's driving people to
basically become freely clones is that
promise money sex fame and the money I
mean here you should never underestimate
this is the importance of money in life
have you heard of money a lot of people
like it oh yes you know I don't know why
it's it's really popular with the kids
these days but I mean I i also have seen
Sarah I don't fall the channels because
they're extremely boring to me but you
know several these people who did
self-righteously drop out of university
and thanked you know the influence of
free land during writer for inspiring
them to do so or you know at least the
fount of justification doing so and
where they explicitly articulate that
they're now going to become full-time
vegan activists and by activists they
mean filming their breakfast they mean
uploading a video of hi no just getting
my nails done you know this is not i
mean when i think of full-time vegan
activist what image do I have my mind
not this kind of you know lifestyle
activism but that they're going to do
that as their primary source of income
or is their only source of income and no
actually it's it's even more we're
talking but when it's only primary so
you know someone like Brianna fruit
jackfruit son you know just as an
example comes my tub my head I have
heard her mention that she works a
number of really low level jobs like you
know being a waitress or a cashier this
kind of thing which I'm not hating I
just mentioned it I may be doing that
kind of work for a couple of months
myself between the end of the semester
and when I start my job in China I'm not
a snob about that but um you know I
think there is a real question for any
of these people including Briana don't
you have any ambition in life you know
like I'm familiar with this stuff
because of my background with Buddhism
like in Buddhism one of the problems you
have to address is you literally have to
tell people you know the point of
Buddhism is not for everyone to quit
their job become a Buddhist monk it's
not I can understand why you'd think
that but like the point of Buddhism is
not for everyone to meditate or for
everyone to live in a
save some people are going to be medical
doctors and some people are going to be
soldiers in the army and actually when
you know tear about a Buddhism it's
interesting because its anti-violence
but they really encourage people to join
the army and and pursue that as a career
and so on and they encourage people
afterwards to get rid of their bad karma
through different means as well they get
it both ways but I just say that that
kind of ambition in life whatever you
want to be a soldier you want to be a
doctor you you know you want to do
something whether it's out of personal
Drive ambition to be someone out of a
sense of social responsibility and
engagement why would you want to be a
bum you know living in and out of a
cheap hostel in Thailand you know
working crappy short-term jobs out of
the back of a restaurant and chasing
youtube fame and even if you do want to
do that where are you going to be five
years from now or 10 years from now a
very small number of people are going to
earn the kind of money during writer
earns I don't even know how much money
earns but apparently he covers his rent
at least the vast majority are not but
whether or not you do I mean I find that
saddening in many different ways as you
know I mean other people might know I'm
not someone who's motivated by money in
life what I'm talking about ambition i'm
not i'm really not talking about
financial ambition or the finite the
money is not the reason well i think
that's important but some but even so if
you're going to remain financially
desperate in your 30s and your 40s if
you're destroying your long-term
earnings ability now yeah those are
serious decisions that have really
really serious long-term consequences
and in some ways it's different from any
cult that's that's existed before but in
some ways it's more powerful than it
called because like what what people
what anything people will do anything
for money and if they won't do it for
money they'll do it for sex and if they
won't do it for sex they'll do it for
fame so that's that that's a really
powerful cocktail well are you moving
away from the financial instability
omelets let's go back to fame or just
get your name or your face out there I
you know freely may not be a you know
poverty stricken obviously yeah for her
to get on you know national television
show in Australia with no credentials um
and you know kind of dodging some of the
questions where she did don't don't you
think the lack of credibility um really
shows especially with the mainstream
media I mean a lot of people want to say
oh well mainstream media doesn't matter
you know you YouTube's the future
internets the future but the truth is
the main sources of media is still
television and radio and legitimate
sources online um so when when a figure
like freely gets on I'm kind of in my
opinion blundering certain aspects of
that interview I mean how does the
public see that I mean it she could be
super famous super rich it could be
anybody but if you if you are deemed
incredible by um you know the masses in
australia or america I mean doesn't that
pose sort of a problem because then it's
like you're only preaching to the choir
on your YouTube channel if you can't
really translate that message over um
because maybe your lack credibility or
your extreme statements whatever um you
know doesn't that really pose a problem
for people yeah I mean look you know who
is the mass market it's definitely been
crucial for freely that she got covered
by mainstream newspapers she's had
newspaper articles do feature stories on
her she's appeared on television and so
on and that's not going to happen to
everybody has ever called happy healthy
vegan they also did a mainstream TV spot
you know I'm happy for them i mean good
for the obviously on some level I'm
happy for actually didn't I if you're
talking about the doctors Yeah right
right right it it didn't go right yeah
it's kind of [ __ ] yeah right a lot
of these vegan youtubers they make
national news or whatever but you know
you tend to read the stories or watch
the interviews and it's you know it's
always with the angle of this extreme
diet the heat of 30 bananas a day you
know I mean that's it does that look
good for us and for promoting veganism
the only well-balanced diet none of it
looks good but me I don't know does the
but like another question does Beyonce
look good you know like really I mean
duh he's not making statements that
she's trying to say
well she she kind of did for like one
week I mean yeah no I mean that's that's
that's why I say like I mean those are
open questions for sure but I mean you
know I think the other thing about about
mainstream media or let's just say
old-fashioned media I think it's also
way more humbling like these people who
come on youtube and other new media you
get to set the rules you get to speak
the audience you want to speak to you
get to delete any comments and pluck any
users you don't like and that's it if
you go to a newspaper you have to work
with an editor you have a relationship
of authority and they're gonna tell you
what they want you to write about etc
you've got to work to spec you've gotta
you know produce for somebody who's your
boss and you gotta produce for an
audience and you got to satisfy the
advertisers you know preparing media for
television radio etc there are all these
things that are basically like limits on
your ego trip that filters yeah yeah but
also I mean you know it's asking you to
step up so I used to be an editor in the
nonfiction book industry and I remember
this author came to us so you know I was
employed by a company that published
books I'm not the CEO of that company
obviously but I was I was an editor and
this guy complained to me he said well
you know I would make more money if I
published this book as a series of 30
newspaper articles like if you broke it
into pieces method and I said to him yes
but that would be more than 60 times as
much work i said i encourage you to do
that but I'm hat i said if this book
comes out of 60 newspaper articles i'm
happy for you but that that's going to
take ten years hook and again every
single one of those articles you're
going to have to go to the editor and
the editor for that section and do it
now again that can be educational you
can learn a lot doing that as an author
it can also be frustrating you can hate
your boss and the old fashioned comic
books roll about that you know
spider-man you know back in the 1960s he
worked at a newspaper and he hated his
boss and you know these questions of the
editorial bias of the news
paper and struggling inside it that used
to be what comic books like spider-man
and Superman were about these days I
don't know spider-man should switch to
running his own blog or something right
um none of that really makes sense
anymore but I think that's also an
interesting component of it is that
veganism as something that's um
sprouting from you know the new
generation of media is is lacking that
education experience um right now I'm
just doing the internship and going to
school my goal is be employed at the end
of the semester which is another month
away um I don't really see any other um
any other option so I'm gonna have to
you know kind of buckle down I have been
applying and I've even been going to
interviews but as your viewers of my
viewers know my criminal background is
causing quite it's it's quite a hurdle
to overcome yo when they ask me can you
explain what happened it's it's not it
look good you know but i mean the the
hilarious thing is man let me tell you i
have zero criminal background not and i
and i got the certificate from the
government you could pay money to get a
piece fair with you ever saying you have
no I've got that oh but people still
treat me like [ __ ] and people don't want
to give me a job give a chance nervous I
mean I get to see it from the other side
I have a totally respectable CV but I
mean nobody wants to give me a job
either so it's got any excuse I may be
so i just mentioned i do have now I have
a job lined up in China and the employer
tells me that's a hundred percent
certain however nothing in China is is a
hundred percent until you're there like
like they're being honest with me it's
just like I would say it's ninety-five
percent certain like there's still a
kind of five you know I mean son of a
five percent chance that the last minute
they could write and say look we got to
cancel everything for whatever reason um
yeah also i'll come back to just one sec
but actually i am for the sake of honor
at least because it's not really
economical necessary i think i am going
to go out and apply for some real Joe
jobs like working at Starbucks or
working at the grocery store just for
the couple of months between now and
going to China wish again from Eli
it's kind of an honor thing it's kind of
like you know because financially it's
kind of showing respect for my parents
showing respect for my obligation to my
own daughter it's like even though I've
only got a couple of months between now
and when that job starts in China like
to me that that seems like the thing to
do again really in terms of honor
because what like the salary I'm going
to earn from a couple of months of job
what that is is almost nothing but um
how will your you know upload schedule
be affected by living in China yeah it
may it may be totally cancelled we'll
see and also hey I make it to go visit I
get bigger to go visit Joe best in shape
I yeah yeah my homie Joe best man uh we
can we conform the fat bald vegan club
man oh but he stopped calling himself
vegan oh I'm sorry I forgot he stopped
using the term vegan for himself it's
really too bad yeah he just he made
video saying he like regrets ever
calling himself a vegan because vegans
are so judgmental and don't get along
with him or what oh oh I feel so bad for
you Hey durianrider says someone's right
right right anyway but yeah if I do go
back and forth drinkin ving and and
Shang Meyer something I can upload their
from Thailand but if you check Wikipedia
there's a wikipedia page called list of
websites banned in China and Facebook is
banned YouTube has banned google is
banned gmail is banned so stringing out
with me I I doubt it but anyway the
question be can I once in a while upload
once I'm inside mainland China because
people do we'll see but yeah it's
possible that i'll have a period of
being a lot more quiet on the internet
and you know maybe people have to check
my blog for updates and text and
everything but even even my blog is run
by google corporation so that even that
is blocked in china because everything
owned by google is blocked in china so
yeah
so long the white pariah she's cooking
and much as my channel I'm not on
youtube i'm on a different app but she
wants to know can you tell izel to open
up some line of communication how do we
get in there's no comment section yeah
if you want to explain sure sure I'll
just I'll just give really sure though
my my email has been public all this
time if you put into Google izel mazhar
email you'll get my email address right
away my name plus the word email a whole
bunch of websites WWI so laser comm my
own website gives you my email it always
has and there's a video on my channel
called why are there no comments below
your YouTube videos that gives an
explanation and also in the description
points out anyone who wants to talk to
me can send me an email anytime so I've
had my email open to public and I do get
really substantive I've already
mentioned some of this conversation I do
get meaningful communication for my
audience and I do write back to them and
and one of the differences is when
people write to me they're writing to me
they're not trying to get attention from
everyone else in the comments section
it's not a public display it's a private
communication there are a lot of things
that change you know when you shift
between those two there's a difference
between two men standing alone having a
fistfight and a crowd of people cheering
them on some you know even when it's
people who are hostile towards me or
what have you I think that's that's very
different and again at this time in my
life like this semester I have really
been able to have quality interactions
with people if I get a full time job or
once I moved to China that'll change you
know I can't I can't promise to be there
always but sure during this during this
last few months when my number of open
have been really increasing of a huge
number of people writing in with letters
of appreciation or specific reflections
on how my content has changed their life
what have you and you say not not an ego
trip but for me again it's it's the
quality of influence not the quantity
back when my youtube channel was talking
more of a Buddhism I got
you know emails from people about how I
had really changed their life where I'd
really had a huge impact and change
their direction in life in a big way and
for me that's not an ego trip but yes
whether even I mean back when i did my
critique of direct action everywhere the
first critique I think that right away
it reached about 800 people but direct
action everywhere themselves saw it
shared the link it reached the right 800
people it reached exactly the 800 people
who were involved in los angeles and in
northern california and in chicago it
reached everyone involved with the ACA
saw it they responded to it what have
you to me that's meaningful you know and
I I'm not chasing an audience of 50,000
people who've never heard of DX e or
don't know what veganism is and wouldn't
appreciate that's just not the nature of
the content it's um it's something more
deep and specialized and I'm really
privileged to have had that that
interaction with with my audience
however small that audience is and I
even felt that way back when back when I
was doing but ism back I was doing you
know Southeast Asian Studies back you
know I was a nobody i'm still a nobody
but you know i was i was able to
communicate with you know leading
scholars in the field from a very early
stage just thanks to email thanks to the
drink communication so you know again in
terms of YB recklessly honest and so on
my reckless honesty has been you know
rewarded in life and yes there have
always been people who hate me on the
internet always like even back when I
was just writing about Buddhism there
people who respond to what I do with
intense hatred and stalker behavior and
what have you um you know but I can tell
you for me it's worth it you want to end
there
yeah I really appreciate your time and
appreciation that's too but yeah now
cool man I see I'm I'm happy to talk to
any time we can maybe we can both talk
about working at Starbucks sometime you
know doesn't doesn't have to be about
veganism cool abolish Yale it's so easy
to spell you'll find a no problem ah bah
the shell